Source: https://lite.cnn.com/2024/01/23/weather/rain-ice-storm-flooding-forecast-tuesday/index.html

A dayslong siege of rain is fueling a serious flash-flood threat in the South


  By Elizabeth Wolfe, Robert Shackelford and Mary Gilbert, CNN
 
Updated: 
        11:13 AM EST, Tue January 23, 2024
     
  Source: CNN
 
A multi-day siege of heavy rain and thunderstorms is raising the risk of flash flooding across the South, while freezing rain creates potentially perilous travel conditions for parts of the central US on Tuesday. Here are the latest updates: 
 
  • Heavy rain brings flash flooding to South: More than 10 million people are under flood watches that stretch from eastern Texas to northern Alabama through Wednesday afternoon. More than 5 inches of rainfall could inundate drought-stricken areas this week, overwhelming dry soil and triggering additional flooding. Heavy rainfall unloaded flash flooding in Texas Monday, including San Antonio.
 
  • Wintry mix poses travel threat: Freezing rain and scattered snowfall could lead to another day of ice-glazed roadways and some power outages Tuesday from parts of the Midwest to the interior Northeast. Air travel may also be hampered by icy weather after similar conditions on Monday led to spikes in delays and cancellations at airports including Chicago’s O’Hare International Airport and the St. Louis Lambert International Airport.
 
  • Hundreds rescued in California flooding: Winter storms also continue to pummel the West. Cleanup and recovery is underway in San Diego Tuesday, where the mayor has declared a state of emergency after heavy rain sent several feet of fast-moving water rushing through some streets and prompted hundreds of rescues on Monday, officials said. Damage assessments are underway in the region and temporary shelters have been established for the displaced and homeless.
 
  Daily waves of warm, moist air will fuel rounds of drenching storms for the South through midweek before wet and dreary conditions expand to a wider area of the eastern US by Friday and Saturday.
 
  Moisture surging north from the Gulf of Mexico is increasing the flood threat across the South.
 
  The heaviest rainfall and the greatest risk for flash flooding will be Tuesday and Wednesday over some of the most parched areas of the region, including Louisiana and Mississippi. Level 3 out of 4 risks of excessive rainfall are in place for both days.
 
  Widespread rainfall totals of 4 to 6 inches are likely. Higher totals will focus on areas closer to the Gulf of Mexico where multiple rounds of heavy rain and a few thunderstorms unfold. Parts of Louisiana and Mississippi could end the week with rainfall bordering on double digits.
 
  Rainfall of this nature can easily lead to flash flooding, especially in drought-stricken areas, because the ground is dry and hard, allowing less water to soak into the soil.
 
  Drought conditions cover more than 80% of Mississippi and more than 90% of Louisiana, and over 10% of both states are in exceptional drought – the most severe level of US Drought Monitor scale.
 
  While the rain will become less intense after Wednesday, steady rounds of rain will persist for the entire week across parts of the South.
 
  By Friday and Saturday, rain and will expand tremendously in scope, bringing dreary, wet weather across much of the East.
 
  Around 1 to 2 inches of rain is possible during this time from the central Appalachians through New England.
 
  More than 50 million people are under winter weather alerts stretching from Kansas to New England on Tuesday as a round of moisture shifts north and clashes with the blanket of cold air that has been lingering over the northern US.
 
  After slick roadways led to reports of cars losing control or spinning out on Monday, accumulating ice remains the most significant threat Tuesday. Even small coatings of ice are enough to cause issues on untreated, paved surfaces like roads and sidewalks. Larger build-ups can also cause tree damage and cause power outages.
 
  Several regional National Weather Service offices urged people to avoid driving in hazardous conditions or exercise extreme caution if travel is essential.
 
  In Des Moines, Iowa, where a mix of ice and snow is expected, the National Weather Service warned of “messy, hazardous travel” Tuesday morning.
 
  Meanwhile, the weather service in Indianapolis, Indiana, cautioned that though air temperatures will be slightly above freezing, ice can still coat roads and sidewalks. “If traveling, drive slow and safe!” the agency said.
 
  Winter weather alerts will begin expiring throughout the day Tuesday across the central US and Great Lakes, while alerts into interior New York could last into Wednesday.
 See Full Web Article 

      Go to the full CNN experience
    
 
    © 2024 Cable News Network. A Warner Bros. Discovery Company. All Rights Reserved.
   

      Terms of Use
    

      |
    

      Privacy Policy
    

      |
    

      Ad Choices
    

      |
    

      Cookie Settings
    
