Source: https://lite.cnn.com/2024/01/23/entertainment/emma-stone-react-oscar-nominations/index.html

Emma Stone and more react to their Oscar nominations


  By Marianne Garvey, CNN
 
Updated: 
        1:40 PM EST, Tue January 23, 2024
     
  Source: CNN
 
  Those who were lucky enough to hear their names read among the Oscar nominees on Tuesday morning are expressing their gratitude for the honor.
 
  “Poor Things” star Emma Stone gave a shout-out to her fellow nominees and called the movie’s 11 nominations “a surreal dream.”
 
  “I am beyond grateful to the Academy for including me as both an actress and producer among this group of exceptional nominees and for recognizing our film in so many categories,” she said in a statement provided to CNN. “The team of artists who contributed to ‘Poor Things’ gave it everything and I am forever thankful for the opportunity to play Bella and see the world through her eyes. She has shown me that life is so much more than just sugar and violence.”
 
  “Poor Things” was the second-most nominated film, behind “Oppenheimer.”
 
  Netflix received 18 nominations across 10 films, including nods for “Nyad,” Maestro,” and “El Conde.”
 
  Annette Bening, nominated for best actress for “Nyad,” said in a statement she was “thrilled and over the moon with excitement” to be nominated for an Academy Award. This is the “American Beauty” star’s fifth nomination. Bening’s “Nyad” costar Jodie Foster also scored a nomination.
 
  One of Stone and Bening’s competitors for lead actress, Carey Mulligan, said she was “brimming with gratitude today” after scoring her nomination, her third in the category after 2009’s “An Education” and 2020’s “Promising Young Woman.” This year, she’s up for her role in Bradley Cooper’s “Maestro,” and said in her statement shared with CNN that she feels “huge pride for the rest of the Maestro team! Thank you to Bradley for handing me this gift of a role and an experience.”
 
  “Maestro” creator Bradley Cooper, nominated for best picture, best original screenplay and best actor said, “We are all so grateful to be recognized along all of these incredible works of art this year. And the performances from every actor who I so admire. Thank you to Jamie, Alex & Nina Bernstein for allowing their parents’ story to be out there in the world and thank you to the Academy. We are very honored to be included.”
 
  Colman Domingo, who made history on Tuesday as only the second out LGBTQ+ actor nominated for playing a real-life LGBTQ+ character (in the film “Rustin”), said in a statement shared with CNN, “To be amplified for my work for portraying this American Hero is everything to me. When my name is called, so is BAYARD RUSTIN’s. What an extraordinary honor. My heart is bursting with joy.”
 
  Musician Jon Batiste’s “It Never Went Away” from the film “American Symphony,” that in part chronicles his wife’s battle with cancer, was nominated for best original song.
 
  “Making music is an act of survival. There was a stretch of time during which my wife Suleika was in the hospital and we weren’t sure she’d make it,” Batiste said in a statement to CNN. “This song began as a lullaby, so she could have a restful aura in the hospital room…We are grateful to be surrounded by love.”
 
  Mark Ronson and Andrew Wyatt, nominated for their song “I’m Just Ken” from “Barbie,” said in a joint statement they were “excited and grateful beyond words.”
 
  “This really is the highest honour to be recognized by our peers and heroes from the Academy. And in a year of so many extraordinary songs - including those from our incredible fellow Barbie contributors,” the statement said. “It’s a testament to Greta Gerwig’s power to inspire and bring out the very best in everyone around her. Thank you so much.”
 
  Billie Eilish and her brother Finneas, who previously won in the best original song category for “No Time to Die,” said, “As lifelong fans of film, music in film and the Academy Awards, this means everything to us.”
 
  Celine Song, who scored her first nomination in the best original screenplay category for “Past Lives,” said she is “overwhelmed” by the recognition.
 
  “Some of the experience working on a debut film is secretly questioning if you belong, if people will support your vision. It has been equal parts scary and rewarding to make this film and release it into the world,” she wrote in a statement. “It is with immense gratitude to those who championed my vision that I now get to be among these giants of screenwriting.”
 
  She added: “There’s an Eastern concept in our film called In-Yun, which is the miraculous connection and love we have with each other just by being in the same place at the same time. It’s the result of thousands of lives we’ve shared before this one. Our entire filmmaking team felt this deeply while making Past Lives. Today’s news makes me feel like many of our filmmaking peers felt the same way. Thank you.”
 See Full Web Article 

      Go to the full CNN experience
    
 
    © 2024 Cable News Network. A Warner Bros. Discovery Company. All Rights Reserved.
   

      Terms of Use
    

      |
    

      Privacy Policy
    

      |
    

      Ad Choices
    

      |
    

      Cookie Settings
    
