Source: https://lite.cnn.com/2024/01/30/business/rent-is-unaffordable-for-over-half-of-us-tenants-but-the-cost-is-cooling/index.html

Rent is unaffordable for over half of US tenants, but the cost is cooling


  By Anna Bahney, CNN
 
Updated: 
        2:02 PM EST, Tue January 30, 2024
     
  Source: CNN
 
As the cost of rent spiked, more than half of renters in the United States have found themselves paying more than they can afford for rent. Over the past few years, that rate has grown as rents have spiked. But as an increase in multiple-unit-building construction has boosted the supply of apartments, which is slowly beginning to bring down rental costs. the cost of rent is softening.
 
  Nationally, rents in December saw the eighth-straight month in a row of year-over-year rent decline decline, according to Realtor.com’s monthly report. The median asking rent was $1,713, which was down $4 from November and down $63 from the July 2022 peak.
 
  However, median rent is still $309 higher than the same time in 2019, before the pandemic. That’s a 22% increase.
 
  And people have been feeling it. In some places, rent isn’t dropping at all, it’s just accelerating increasing at a slower pace. or going sideways.
 
But, in a bit of good news, US renters can expect rents will take a break from soaring ever higher. So Still, even if rents aren’t dropping like a rock, at least they won’t be skyrocketing and renters can expect them to take a break from soaring much higher.
 
  This is a may come as some relief to the 22.4 million households — over half of all renters — who, according to Harvard University’s Joint Center for Housing Studies, pay more than a third of their income towards rent. Thirty percent is which is a standard the threshold for being considered as being cost burdened. , according to a report released every two years from the Harvard University’s Joint Center for Housing Studies with an analysis of the most recent data in 2022. 
 
  What’s more, of those renter households, 12 million of those renters are severely cost burdened, which means they are paying more than half of their income on housing.
 
  The report reveals several disturbing records, including the record-high number of renters in housing they cannot afford and a record-high number of people who are homeless, said Chris Herbert, managing director of the Harvard Joint Center for Housing Studies in an event announcing the report’s release, which analyzed data from 2022. , including that a record number of renters are in housing they cannot afford and a record number of people are homeless.
 
  In addition, the report found an increase in housing instability with that evictions are rising as pandemic protections have expired. Beyond that, and a record high number of income-eligible renters not able to can’t get assistance as rental support is falling falls short. , with a record high number of income eligible renters not able to get assistance.
 
  “Rental conditions are softening, but affordability conditions are worse than ever before,” said Whitney Airgood-Obrycki, senior research associate at the Harvard center who presented findings on the report.
 
  Following changes in housing needs during the pandemic and an already existing low supply of multifamily housing in some markets, rents surged in 2021 and 2022. But that has changed in 2023 thanks to increased supply, the report showed.
 
  Rent price? growth peaked at a record breaking 15% annually in the first quarter of 2022, before starting to slow. By the end of 2023 rents were growing by just 0.4% annually.
 
  Even cities with the stickiest most intractable rising rents are seeing some cooling.
 
  In November rents dropped in Manhattan for the first time in 27 months. The median rent fell to $4,000, down 4.6% from October and down 2.3% from the year before, according to a report from the brokerage firm Douglas Elliman and Miller Samuel Real Estate Appraisers and Consultants.
 
  “We’re seeing supply and demand switch places in real time,” said Anthemos Georgiades, chief executive of Zumper, a rental marketplace. “Pandemic-fueled migrations have slowed just as new multifamily buildings are coming online in many markets.”
 
  He said seasonally added that winter is a slow time for renters to move, which is driving demand even lower right now.
 
  “Renters have more leverage right now than anytime in recent memory.”
 
  Multifamily building has been booming at a pace not seen in decades.
 
  About 436,000 multifamily units were completed in the third quarter of last year, on a seasonally adjusted basis, which was the highest level 1988 and up about a third from pre-pandemic levels, according to the Harvard report.
 
  And there are more in the pipeline.
 
  The number of multifamily units under construction peaked in July at over 1 million, the highest level on record, according to the US Census Bureau. While the number has stayed at a historically higher level since then, it has been ticking down some, on a seasonally adjusted annualized basis.
 
  Builders are facing higher costs due to interest rates on their loans, material costs and land costs, and are already pulling back on building. As a result, the National Association of Home Builders forecast that multifamily building will decrease by about 20% next year.
 
  While the increase in new construction and available apartments has been a boon to the market, there may not be new units coming at the same pace in the future. Even though a large demand will remain not only from Baby Boomers and Millennials, but also from more of Gen Z aging into apartment renting.
 
  Without continued addition of new supply in addition to enhanced rental support, the Harvard report concludes, affordability will remain a critical concern for many renters.
 See Full Web Article 

      Go to the full CNN experience
    
 
    © 2024 Cable News Network. A Warner Bros. Discovery Company. All Rights Reserved.
   

      Terms of Use
    

      |
    

      Privacy Policy
    

      |
    

      Ad Choices
    

      |
    

      Cookie Settings
    
