Source: https://lite.cnn.com/2024/01/30/sport/us-figure-skaters-olympics-kamila-valieva-intl-hnk-spt/index.html

US figure skaters awarded Olympic gold after Russian skater disqualified


  By Homero De la Fuente and Andrew McNicol, CNN
 
Updated: 
        1:47 AM EST, Tue January 30, 2024
     
  Source: CNN
 
  The United States Figure Skating team will receive a gold medal for their team event at the 2022 Beijing Winter Olympics, after Russian figure skater Kamila Valieva was handed a four-year ban Monday over a long-running doping controversy.
 
  Valieva, now 17, had led the Russian Olympic Committee to first place in the team event ahead of the US and Japan — before her doping test came back positive for performance-enhancing substance trimetazidine.
 
  The ban is backdated to December 25, 2021, which is when the sample was collected. Valieva was only 15 at the time.
 
  No medals had been awarded as a result of the doping controversy until the Court of Arbitration for Sport’s decision to disqualify Valieva of “all competitive results” achieved since her positive test.
 
  In a statement Monday night, the US Olympic and Paralympic Committee (USOPC) said its CEO Sarah Hirschland “confirms she spoke with the IOC this evening and received the awesome news that the 2022 US Figure Skating team event athletes have been awarded the gold medal in the team competition.”
 
  “Let the celebrations begin,” it said in the statement. “Congratulations Evan Bates, Karen Chen, Nathan Chen, Madison Chock, Zachary Donohue, Brandon Frazier, Madison Hubbell, Alexa Knierim and Vincent Zhou.”
 
  The highly-anticipated decision has been welcomed by anti-doping bodies around the world – including the International Olympic Committee (IOC), which said it would award the medals according to the International Skating Union rankings.
 
  No date or location has been provided for the medal ceremony, though the IOC confirmed it would organize “a diginified Olympic medal ceremony” for the US, Japan, and then-fourth-placed Canada in future.
 
  CNN Sport has contacted the International Olympic Committee (IOC), the Japanese Olympic Committee and the Russian Olympic Committee for further comment.
 
  Russian athletes were competing under no flag as neutrals at the Winter Olympics in Beijing due to a previous ban for doping non-compliance.
 
  Even with the latest news of Valieva’s ban, Alexander Kogan, director general of the Russian Figure Skating Federation, said that he still views his athletes to be the champions in the team event.
 
  In its Monday announcement, CAS said that the decision to ban Valieva for four years is “final and binding,” explaining that the parties can appeal to the Swiss Federal Tribunal “within 30 days on limited grounds.”
 See Full Web Article 

      Go to the full CNN experience
    
 
    © 2024 Cable News Network. A Warner Bros. Discovery Company. All Rights Reserved.
   

      Terms of Use
    

      |
    

      Privacy Policy
    

      |
    

      Ad Choices
    

      |
    

      Cookie Settings
    
