Source: https://lite.cnn.com/2024/01/24/weather/flood-warnings-texas-louisiana-climate/index.html

A month’s worth of rain in 3 days is triggering dangerous flash flooding in Texas and Louisiana


  By Mary Gilbert, CNN Meteorologist
 
Updated: 
        12:07 PM EST, Wed January 24, 2024
     
  Source: CNN
 
  Dangerous flash flooding is ongoing across parts of Texas and Louisiana Wednesday as drenching storms deluge the South.
 
  More than a month’s worth of rain has fallen in several Texas and Louisiana cities since Monday. But a few Texas cities have picked up nearly double what’s typical for January in the same timeframe.
 
  Rainfall totals by Wednesday morning neared 6 inches in the College Station, Texas, area – about 80 miles northwest of Houston – since Monday. The city picks up around 3 inches of rain on average in January.
 
  The week’s rainfall eclipsed 10 inches west of Houston, in Industry and Fayetteville, Texas.
 
  The torrential rainfall is part of a multi-day flood threat that will reach its most concerning level in the region Wednesday.
 
  San Antonio, Beaumont, Texas, and Lake Charles, Louisiana, were just some of the cities where flash flood warnings were issued Wednesday morning.
 
  The National Weather Service warned of “life-threatening flash flooding” east of San Antonio Wednesday morning. Between 5 and 7 inches of rain have fallen in this area since Tuesday, with more to come.
 
  A more widespread area of 2 to 4 inches of rain has soaked areas from eastern Texas to Louisiana and southern Arkansas since Tuesday.
 
  Daily waves of warm, moist air will continue to fuel rounds of drenching storms for the South through midweek before wet and dreary conditions expand to a wider area of the eastern US by Friday and Saturday.
 
  The area of greatest concern for flash flooding will expand across more of Louisiana and reach parts of Mississippi as Wednesday progresses. A Level 3 out of 4 risk for excessive rainfall is in place for these areas Wednesday.
 
  New Orleans is under this increased risk level, with the heaviest rain expected for the city Wednesday afternoon and evening.
 
  Moisture surging north from the Gulf of Mexico is increasing the flood threat across the South.
 
  Widespread rainfall totals of 4 to 6 inches are likely across much of the South. Higher totals are likely in areas closer to the Gulf of Mexico where multiple rounds of heavy rain and a few thunderstorms unfold.
 
  Parts of eastern Texas, Louisiana and Mississippi could end the week with close to a foot of rainfall.
 
  Rainfall of this nature can easily lead to flash flooding, especially in drought-stricken areas of Louisiana and Mississippi, because the ground is dry and hard, allowing less water to soak into the soil.
 
  Drought conditions cover more than 80% of Mississippi and more than 90% of Louisiana, and over 10% of both states are in exceptional drought – the most severe level of US Drought Monitor scale.
 
  While the rain will become less intense after Wednesday, steady rounds of rain will persist for the entire week across parts of the South.
 
  By Friday and Saturday, rain and will expand tremendously in scope, bringing dreary, wet weather across much of the East.
 
  Around 1 to 2 inches of rain is possible during this time from the central Appalachians through New England.
 
CNN Meteorologist Rob Shackelford and CNN’s Elizabeth Wolfe contributed to this report.
 See Full Web Article 

      Go to the full CNN experience
    
 
    © 2024 Cable News Network. A Warner Bros. Discovery Company. All Rights Reserved.
   

      Terms of Use
    

      |
    

      Privacy Policy
    

      |
    

      Ad Choices
    

      |
    

      Cookie Settings
    
