Source: https://lite.cnn.com/2024/04/20/us/2-children-killed-michigan-birthday-party/index.html

2 young siblings killed at child’s birthday party when car drives into building in Michigan, police say


  By Emma Tucker and Raja Razek, CNN
 
Updated: 
        3:18 PM EDT, Tue April 23, 2024
     
  Source: CNN
 
  An 8-year-old girl and her 4-year-old brother were killed, and at least nine others were seriously injured, at a child’s birthday party at a boat club in Newport, Michigan, on Saturday when a motorist drove through the building where the celebration was taking place, authorities said.
 
  A 66-year-old woman, who authorities allege was intoxicated while operating the vehicle, was taken into custody and is being held at the Monroe County Jail, Monroe County Sheriff Troy Goodnough said at a Saturday news conference.
 
  The two children were pronounced dead at the scene, the sheriff said. The siblings were identified Monday by the sheriff’s office as Alanah Phillips and her brother Zayn Phillips. Police initially said the boy was 5 years old.
 
  ﻿On Tuesday, prosecutors identified the driver as Marshella Marie Chidester, a news release from Monroe County Prosecuting Attorney Jeffery A. Yorkey said. Chidester has been charged with two counts of second-degree murder and six counts related to driving while intoxicated, according to the release.
 
  The second-degree murder charges carry a maximum sentence of life imprisonment and Chidester also faces up to 50 years in prison and thousands of dollars in fines for the additional charges, the release said.
 
  CNN has reached out to Chidester’s attorney for comment.
 
  The vehicle crashed into Swan Boat Club around 3 p.m. Saturday and came to a stop about 25 feet inside the building, where a young child’s birthday party was being held, the sheriff’s office said in a news release Sunday.
 
  Responders provided first aid to 15 victims and nine were transported by ambulance or helicopter to hospitals, the release said. Other victims sought medical treatment on their own.
 
  Three children and six adults were left with “life-threatening injuries,” according to Goodnough, who was visibly emotional during the news conference.
 
  An 11-year-old boy and a 31-year-old woman were in critical condition Monday, the sheriff’s office said.
 
The Swan Boat Club, which is on Lake Erie, about 30 miles south of Detroit, asked people not to visit Saturday so emergency vehicles could get through. The club is closed until further notice.
 
  “Please keep everyone involved in your thoughts and prayers. We thank everyone for their concern and prayers,” the club said in a statement.
 
  District Court Judge Christian Horkey set Chidester’s bond at $1.5 million. Her next court appearance is scheduled for Wednesday morning, according to the prosecutor’s office.
 See Full Web Article 

      Go to the full CNN experience
    
 
    © 2024 Cable News Network. A Warner Bros. Discovery Company. All Rights Reserved.
   

      Terms of Use
    

      |
    

      Privacy Policy
    

      |
    

      Ad Choices
    

      |
    

      Cookie Settings
    
