Source: https://lite.cnn.com/2024/04/23/entertainment/kim-kardashian-rumors-jimmy-kimmel/index.html

Kim Kardashian clears up whether she blow dries her jewelry and other rumors


  By Lisa Respers France, CNN
 
Updated: 
        10:40 AM EDT, Tue April 23, 2024
     
  Source: CNN
 
  Kim Kardashian has led quite the life.
 
  While she has been sharing much of it with the public in reality TV series since 2007, Kardashian actually revealed some new gems during an appearance Monday on “Jimmy Kimmel Live.” For example, she and her sister Kourtney used to walk the dog for their neighbor Madonna.
 
  “She was my next door neighbor when I was like seven and eight years old,” Kardashian said. “I was her dog walker. Kourtney and I would walk her dog after school in exchange for her jewelry.”
 
  According to the reality star/entrepreneur, the pop icon was “transitioning out of the ’80s neon phase” and handed her and her sister a shoe box with a bunch of neon bracelets that were a hit when the then youngsters wore them to school.
 
  “Everyone was like, ‘Oh my God I love your bracelets.’ And we were like, ‘Thanks. Madonna gave them to us,’” Kardashian recalled.
 
  Kimmel also asked a few questions to clear up rumors he had heard about Kardashian, like whether she blow dries her jewelry before she wears it.
 
  “Very true,” Kardashian responded. “Because I hate being freezing and when you put on cold jewelry or like anything with a zipper, I just need it warm and then put it on.”
 
  Kardashian verified that she sleeps with her eyes partially open, washes her feet every night before bed and celebrated her 14th birthday at Michael Jackson’s Neverland ranch.
 
  She also confirmed she prefers cardboard sleeves removed from a Starbucks cup because seeing or hearing it is “is like nails on a chalkboard to me,” and she can  change car tires on her own.
 
  Kardashian does not, however, have six toes on one foot.
 See Full Web Article 

      Go to the full CNN experience
    
 
    © 2024 Cable News Network. A Warner Bros. Discovery Company. All Rights Reserved.
   

      Terms of Use
    

      |
    

      Privacy Policy
    

      |
    

      Ad Choices
    

      |
    

      Cookie Settings
    
