Source: https://lite.cnn.com/2024/04/23/us/ostrich-karen-topeka-zoo-death/index.html

Topeka Zoo’s ‘vibrant and beloved’ ostrich, Karen, dies after swallowing a set of keys


  By Amanda Musa, CNN
 
Updated: 
        11:30 AM EDT, Tue April 23, 2024
     
  Source: CNN
 
  Karen, a five-year-old ostrich living at the Topeka Zoo in Kansas, has died after swallowing a set of keys she snatched from a staff member, according to zoo officials.
 
  The beloved bird “tragically succumbed to complications arising from consuming a foreign object,” the Topeka Zoo said in a Facebook post on Friday.
 
  According to zoo officials, Karen reached beyond her enclosure to grab a set of keys from a staff member and “immediately” swallowed them.
 
  “Zoo staff consulted with experts across the country to undergo surgical and non-surgical efforts to minimize the impact of the keys,” the post reads. “Unfortunately, these efforts were unsuccessful.”
 
  Karen was euthanized on Thursday, according to Fawn Moser, interim director of the Topeka Zoo.
 
  “We are devastated by the loss of Karen,” Moser said in a statement Friday. “She was not just an animal; she was a beloved member of our community.”
 
  Karen arrived at the Topeka Zoo and Conservation Center in 2023 and was a member of the Giraffe & Friends exhibit, which allows visitors to interact with animals.
 
  Known for her playful nature, Karen loved the water and spent much of her time “swimming in the pool, playing in the sprinkler, and, best of all, being our ‘dancing queen,’” the zoo said.
 
  “Our thoughts are with our dedicated animal care team, who formed deep bonds with Karen during her time with us,” Moser added.
 
  Zoo officials have conducted a thorough investigation into the circumstances surrounding Karen’s death and are taking “appropriate actions” with regard to the team member involved. Protocols are also being reviewed and enhanced to further protect animals living at the zoo.
 
  “Karen’s passing serves as a solemn reminder of the importance of vigilance and care in maintaining the safety of our animal inhabitants,” the zoo said.
 See Full Web Article 

      Go to the full CNN experience
    
 
    © 2024 Cable News Network. A Warner Bros. Discovery Company. All Rights Reserved.
   

      Terms of Use
    

      |
    

      Privacy Policy
    

      |
    

      Ad Choices
    

      |
    

      Cookie Settings
    
